QUBU - Quick User BackUp
Michael Trunner <michael@trunner.de>
Last changed: %%mtime(%Y-%m-%d)

= About =
QUBU creates snapshots of your $HOME. It is written in Python and uses rsync as backend and crond to schedule the backup task.

It's primary goal is to be a minimalistic, simple and functional backup tool and not to be very eye-candy.


= Usage =
```
Usage: snapshots.py [options] profile

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -r PATH, --restore=PATH
                        restore PATH from snapshot (Full path including
                        snapshot path)
  -c, --clean           Remove/reduce old Snapshots
  -q, --quiet           Decrease Verbose Level (only Warnings and above)
  -d, --debug           Debug Output
```


= Configuration =
A qubu profile is a normal rsync filter file with two or three header lines starting with a "#". This way rsync will ignore them.

The first line must be the path to the source directory. Normally the value of $HOME.
The second line defines the directory path where the backup snapshots should be stored.
The third line is optional and defines the rsync command call with its parameters. The default for it is "rsync -aEAXH". Normally you shouldn't have to change it.

For more details of the rsync filter option take a look into the rsync manpage and documentation. 


== Example profile ==
```
# /home/qubu-user
# /media/backupdisks/qubu-backup
- Downloads
- .local/share/Trash
- .thumbnails
- .cache
- *cache*
- *Cache*
- .kde4/share/apps/nepomuk
- .kde4/share/apps/kmail/imap/
- .local/share/akonadi/db_data
```


= Setting up a cron job =
Your cron daemon should run qubu as a cron job. A cronjob can be create with:

``` crontab -e

But please take a look at your cron daemon documentation at least take a look at ``man crontab``.

A dcron ( the default cron daemon on archlinux)  crontab entry for qubu can look like this:

``` @hourly qubu.py ~/.qubu/home  >> ~/.qubu/home.log 2>&1

This cron job will start qubu every our. The profile is stored at ~/.qubu/home and all output is redirected to ~/.qubu/home

**Note:** If you don't redirect the qubu output your cron daemon will try to deliver it via mail.

The crontab entry above works but it will consume nearly all IQ bandwidth and CPU resources it can get.
To reduce the consuming you can use ``nice`` and ``ionice``:

``` @hourly ID=qubu nice -n 19 ionice -c2 -n7 /home/trunneml/bin/qubu.py ~/.qubu/home  >> ~/.qubu/home.log 2>&1


= License =
This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

